.\" Manpage for _printf().
.TH man 3 "17 March 2020" "1.0" "_printf man page"
.SH NAME
printf()
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include "holberton.h"

Use the function wuth the specifiers (c,s,i,d, etc) after the %. If no identifier is present then the function prints the literalu string.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions _printf()  produce output according to a
format specified. write the output under the control of a format
string that specifies how subsequent arguments (or arguments accessed
via the variable-length argument facilities.
Format of the format string
The format string is a character string, beginning and ending in its
initial shift state, if any.  The format string is composed of zero
or more directives: ordinary characters (not %), which are copied
unchanged to the output stream; and conversion specifications, each
of which results in fetching zero or more subsequent arguments.  Each
conversion specification is introduced by the character %, and ends
with a conversion specifier.  In between there may be (in this order)
zero or more flags, an optional minimum field width, an optional
precision and an optional length modifier.
Conversion specifiers
A character that specifies the type of conversion to be applied.  The
conversion specifiers and their meanings are:

       d, i   The int argument is converted to signed decimal notation.  The
              precision, if any, gives the minimum number of digits that
              must appear; if the converted value requires fewer digits, it
              is padded on the left with zeros.  The default precision is 1.
              When 0 is printed with an explicit precision 0, the output is
              empty.

       o, u, x, X
              The unsigned int argument is converted to unsigned octal (o),
              unsigned decimal (u), or unsigned hexadecimal (x and X) nota‐
              tion.  The letters abcdef are used for x conversions; the let‐
              ters ABCDEF are used for X conversions.  The precision, if
              any, gives the minimum number of digits that must appear; if
              the converted value requires fewer digits, it is padded on the
              left with zeros.  The default precision is 1.  When 0 is
              printed with an explicit precision 0, the output is empty.

       e, E   The double argument is rounded and converted in the style
              [-]d.ddde±dd where there is one digit (which is nonzero if the
              argument is nonzero) before the decimal-point character and
              the number of digits after it is equal to the precision; if
              the precision is missing, it is taken as 6; if the precision
              is zero, no decimal-point character appears.  An E conversion
              uses the letter E (rather than e) to introduce the exponent.
              The exponent always contains at least two digits; if the value
              is zero, the exponent is 00.

       f, F   The double argument is rounded and converted to decimal nota‐
              tion in the style [-]ddd.ddd, where the number of digits after
              the decimal-point character is equal to the precision specifi‐
              cation.  If the precision is missing, it is taken as 6; if the
              precision is explicitly zero, no decimal-point character
              appears.  If a decimal point appears, at least one digit
              appears before it.

              (SUSv2 does not know about F and says that character string
              representations for infinity and NaN may be made available.
              SUSv3 adds a specification for F.  The C99 standard specifies
              "[-]inf" or "[-]infinity" for infinity, and a string starting
              with "nan" for NaN, in the case of f conversion, and "[-]INF"
              or "[-]INFINITY" or "NAN" in the case of F conversion.)

       g, G   The double argument is converted in style f or e (or F or E
              for G conversions).  The precision specifies the number of
              significant digits.  If the precision is missing, 6 digits are
              given; if the precision is zero, it is treated as 1.  Style e
              is used if the exponent from its conversion is less than -4 or
              greater than or equal to the precision.  Trailing zeros are
              removed from the fractional part of the result; a decimal
              point appears only if it is followed by at least one digit.

       a, A   (C99; not in SUSv2, but added in SUSv3) For a conversion, the
              double argument is converted to hexadecimal notation (using
              the letters abcdef) in the style [-]0xh.hhhhp±; for A conver‐
              sion the prefix 0X, the letters ABCDEF, and the exponent sepa‐
              rator P is used.  There is one hexadecimal digit before the
              decimal point, and the number of digits after it is equal to
              the precision.  The default precision suffices for an exact
              representation of the value if an exact representation in base
              2 exists and otherwise is sufficiently large to distinguish
              values of type double.  The digit before the decimal point is
              unspecified for nonnormalized numbers, and nonzero but other‐
              wise unspecified for normalized numbers.

       c      If no l modifier is present, the int argument is converted to
              an unsigned char, and the resulting character is written.  If
              an l modifier is present, the wint_t (wide character) argument
              is converted to a multibyte sequence by a call to the
              wcrtomb(3) function, with a conversion state starting in the
              initial state, and the resulting multibyte string is written.

       s      If no l modifier is present: the const char * argument is
              expected to be a pointer to an array of character type
              (pointer to a string).  Characters from the array are written
              up to (but not including) a terminating null byte ('\0'); if a
              precision is specified, no more than the number specified are
              written.  If a precision is given, no null byte need be
              present; if the precision is not specified, or is greater than
              the size of the array, the array must contain a terminating
              null byte.

              If an l modifier is present: the const wchar_t * argument is
              expected to be a pointer to an array of wide characters.  Wide
              characters from the array are converted to multibyte charac‐
              ters (each by a call to the wcrtomb(3) function, with a con‐
              version state starting in the initial state before the first
              wide character), up to and including a terminating null wide
              character.  The resulting multibyte characters are written up
              to (but not including) the terminating null byte.  If a preci‐
              sion is specified, no more bytes than the number specified are
              written, but no partial multibyte characters are written.
              Note that the precision determines the number of bytes writ‐
              ten, not the number of wide characters or screen positions.
              The array must contain a terminating null wide character,
              unless a precision is given and it is so small that the number
              of bytes written exceeds it before the end of the array is
              reached.

       C      (Not in C99 or C11, but in SUSv2, SUSv3, and SUSv4.)  Synonym
              for lc.  Don't use.

       S      (Not in C99 or C11, but in SUSv2, SUSv3, and SUSv4.)  Synonym
              for ls.  Don't use.

       %      A '%' is written.  No argument is converted.  The complete
              conversion specification is '%%'.
<<<<<<< HEAD
.SH EXAMPLE
#include "holberton.h"
	 _printf("hello, %s", "people")
	 output: hello, people
=======
>>>>>>> 9c977edf2ec1123b7cc55eb37dc8771699aa9620
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful return, these functions return the number of
characters printed (excluding the null byte used to end output to
strings).
If an output error is encountered, a negative value is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
printf(3).
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Charliemur2, mecomonteshbtn.